Your first assignment is to use GitHub to submit some autobiographical information about yourself.  Answer the following questions.  Use GitHub to submit the resulting text file.
1. What is your name?

Julian Cook

2. Why are you interested in Data Science?

I have always been interested in data, databases and machine learning. In the area that I work in, models only seem to ever explain about 70% of the cases, whereas machine learning algorithms seem especially adept at figuring out the remaining (messy and complex) 30% and do even better as you feed them more data. I am hoping to be able to show and prove that more problems can be directly solved using data science from the beginning, rather than at the margins of 'established' methodologies.

3. Tell us a little bit about your programming experience.  What programming courses have you taken?  Do you use programming on the job, and if so, how?

Our 'production' applications are written in C++ and java. I do not directly write those, since I am not a developer. I do a lot of work in python and also R, depending on need. I spend as much time doing ETL scripts (using python mainly) and building databases as I actually do writing analysis code. If I just need to do analysis on ready-made data, I would probably use R. For top down coding that involves a lot of data manipulation first, I would use python/pandas usually.

4.  Tell us a little bit about your statistics experience.  What statistics courses have you taken?  Do you use statistics on the job, and if so, how?

I work in the area of derivatives pricing, so I get involved in stochastic processes and probability, but not really in statistical inference. A lot of the pricing models are effectively monte-carlo simulations, using different types of stochastic processes. For other (ongoing) work related to volatility modeling, we are developing an auto-regressive time-series type model that has a 'garch' process.

5.  Do you have other experience with R or Python?

Python: I use it every week,sometimes daily. I actually have a (tiny) python server in the office running right now. In the past I have written fairly extensive applications that included classes and inheritance and worked with real-time feeds.
R: I use it occasionally and used it extensively about one year ago for a lengthy period.

6.  What do you hope to learn in this class?
7.  Is there anything else you would like to share with us?
